L the UN special coordinator for the
Middle East peace process he joins us
here in dah good to have you with us
thank you for having me is do you
believe we are close to a ceasefire so I
know we've been meeting a lot of
people I cannot give you the timing for
that but what I can say is that uh I
have been working on this now since the
immediate aftermath of the startup I met
with the uh for minister in Cairo
Wednesday in the first week to have the
assurances of Egypt's involvement in
assuring humanitarian access through
Egypt into the strip what the Egyptians
have done is to provide for that
capacity and uh now my I've sent my
humanitarian coordinator there to follow
that up and uh see is on the ground as
we speak what does that mean are are you
hopeful that soon Aid will be able to
enter
gasa well we cannot have an effective
distribution of Aid in gasa in the
middle of a war we need the space to get
that in and get it distributed to more
than 2 million people on the inside so
that is what we have been working on
into the nres over the last uh days and
that's is it coming though Contin it do
you think it's going to happen anytime
soon I think it's going to happen and I
hope it will happen as soon as possible
you've also been uh having discussions
with different diplomats in the Middle
East I'm wondering from your discussions
with the Iranian foreign
minister what do you understand about an
Israeli ground offensive might that
trigger a response from Iran well now
you're into the secret files and I am
not we love the secret files yeah I know
but I'm not accessing them as un so I
mean
don't ask me that question because
honestly I can't respond to it I got to
ask you these questions though you
understand unfortunately you know we the
people want to know what is basically
going to happen next and the the the
fear is the next phase of this will be
an even bloodier ground offensive which
will then trigger a wider escalation
throughout the region let me put it this
way without asking you to divulge what
discussions you've had with anyone are
you person ly worried that a grand
offensive will lead to a wider
escalation across the whole region Le
let me put it that way the longer this
going to last on the ground the more
intensive it is the bigger uh the chance
is for some incidents to happen that
would trigger uh a very very dangerous
situation also regionally that's my view
and uh I see no nothing to revise that
one at the moment and I must say that
one of these incidences was the hospital
incident in uh in gasa
yesterday and I really want to step back
and and present the condolences and my
deep sympathy for for those who were hit
by that one I I have had my family in
situations that
scares life out of you and I can only
imagine how the Carnage was it's
terrible and it's an example for why we
have to go into this in order to give
the necessary space for work to be done
on the key files now supplies in uh get
the space for that to happen and also
actually to to have the space to
address uh the situation of abducted
people held inside Gaza do do you
believe the parties are any closer to
that kind of
understanding I think it's pretty clear
to both sides in this conflict and also
I can tell you to the regional part
parties that I've been in contact with
and to the International Community that
this is needed the question is when we
set it the Secretary General is going to
the region Now isn't he he is coming in
tomorrow and I'm going with him there to
participate in the political discussions
that will take place in Cairo uh on
Saturday there need to be a political
framework addressed just now not only to
deal with the nitty-gritties but also
actually to look at the day
after uh and if we don't start looking
at the day after in the middle of the
situation we are in now it will be too
late what is the day after what should
it look like according to your
vision well we have to set up a system
the day after that gives the necessary
assurances uh to the people of
Gaza
that there will be a different direction
coming an end of
occupation I would just say it the
following way if we we are not starting
now to address the key issues that we
haven't been able to address properly
for the last three years we are on we
are in the wrong direction of things
okay but specifically there should be
would you say there should be an end of
occupation an end of Siege so that both
Israelis and Palestinians can live in
peaceful dignified lives with equal
rights that is the international line
that is the UN line how that will look
when we start moving into and working it
out that we will have to see and uh
final quick question the Secretary
General finally made a call for a
ceasefire what prompted that did it have
to take the bombing of a hospital for
him to call for that we are superbly
cautious both to what we are saying and
when we are saying it and we are saying
it when we think it's important to get
it set it wasn't important 24 hours no
I'll explain that for you
thousands of Palestinians have died uh
we have
1,000 I don't know more than 1200
Israelis have died right wasn't this
important 24 hours ago yes it was uh but
here is the background for
that as I told you we have been working
on the integrities of getting the space
done to get supplies to two and 2.3
million people in Gaza we need to get
that into place now it has been very
clear to us from when I was in KY last
Wednesday up until today that that space
has not yet been there now we need it
and that was why he addressed it now it
has to do with where we are to resolve
the conflict to address it thank you
very much sir for coming in talking to
us thank you thank you